>> Hello, and welcome.
I'm David Icke, and today
we'll answer the question, how
do the few control the many?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As my research unfolded
over the last 30 years,
it became clear very
early on that the few do
control the many.
So the question was, how?
How do a relative
handful of people
control the direction
of the world
with a population
currently of 7.7 billion?
There had to be a structure
that allowed that to happen.
And also, that
structure had to be such
that the vast overwhelming
majority of people
who were playing a
part in that control
had no idea that's
what they were doing.
And, it turns out, there
is just such a structure.
You can use the symbolism--
and it's almost not symbolism.
It's how it is structured.
But you can use the
symbolism of the spider's web
to understand how the
few control the many.
Imagine a spider in
the center of the web.
And this spider, for those that
have watched other programs
in this series, is
that non-human force
that Archontic force that
I've been talking about.
And then you come in
to the human world
with the strands in the web
immediately around the spider.
These strands are the most
exclusive secret societies.
Some of them don't
even have names,
which makes them harder
to identify and track.
And within that exclusive
group of secret societies
are those in the human
realm who absolutely
know A, how all this works,
and B, what the endgame is
and what the manipulation
is taking humanity towards.
And then you come further
out from the spider,
and then you start to
meet the secret societies
we do know about.
I mean, we know about
their existence.
We don't know about what their
inner circle is deciding.
But we know their names,
things like the Freemasons,
The Knights of Malta, the
Knights Templar, Opus Dei,
The Inner Circle of the Jesuit
Order, and so on and so forth.
And that's important.
I'll emphasize this
more in a second.
When I talk about
secret societies,
I'm not saying that everybody
in that secret society
is manipulating the world.
That would be ridiculous.
So many people would know,
it would get out widely
into the public arena.
These are compartmentalized
structures
where the few at the top,
the very few at the top
are the only ones that know,
actually, what the game really
is.
Everyone else only
knows a part of it.
So you then come further out in
the web, still in the hidden,
and you meet what I call the
cusp organizations in the web.
This is the point where
the hidden part of the web
meets the seen part of
the web, and here you'll
find organizations
like the Council
on Foreign Relations
in the United States,
which has driven American
foreign policy since it
was created in 1921.
You're talking about the
Trilateral Commission, again,
set up in America by the
Rockefeller family and others,
and that was around 1973.
Then you have the
Bilderberg Group,
very well-known in
the alternative media,
which was created in 1954 at the
Bilderberg Hotel in Oosterbeek,
Holland, which is
why it is called,
of course, the Bilderberg Group.
And you have the Club of Rome.
The Club of Rome was
created in the 1960s
to use environmental
concerns as an excuse
to justify the centralization
of power in the world.
So these are the
organizations which
take the agenda
for human society
from the spider through
the secret society network,
and through the
cusp organizations
out into the public arena.
And there you see
governments, you
see corporations, you
see banking systems,
and all these other
institutions that control
and direct human society that
are making decisions that
decide where humanity goes.
And if you get to
the core of the core
of those organizations,
you will be at a point
where they connect
into this web,
and from that
point of view, they
are all the same organization.
So at that inner core level,
Silicon Valley corporations
are the Pentagon, are
the banking system,
are the biotech industry, are
the pharmaceutical industry.
At that deep level,
they all connect.
And so in the public
arena, we see apparently
random decisions.
We see random decisions by
the pharmaceutical cartel,
by governments, by government
agencies, by banks, and so on.
But when you know how
the structure works
at the core of
those organizations,
they're all on the same team.
So how does this not get
out into the public arena?
Well, for the same reason
that I've talked about,
compartmentalization, whereby
if you look at a secret society,
they're broken up into
levels, into degrees.
And to get to the
next degree, you
have to be invited by
that degree above you.
And you only get in there if
they think you're acceptable.
And if you, therefore, look
at governments, corporations,
universities, any of these
institutions and organizations,
they're basically structured
like a secret society.
They're structured as pyramids.
So at the top of
the pyramid, you've
got a tiny few people who
know how the whole pyramid
structure of that organization,
whatever it is, operates.
And they know what
the real game is
and the real motivation
of that organization is.
But as you come down
from that pyramid peak,
you meet more and more and
more people in an organization,
and they know, as you
go down, less and less
and less about what the
organization is really about.
They only know their part in it.
And so someone
here does not know
what they're doing,
apparently in isolation
and in apparent
innocence, connects
into what they're
doing and they're doing
and they're doing to create
a very different picture
of what's happening.
Only they at the top know that.
Now there's one other thing
to know about this web
before I move on.
And that's that there
was an interbreeding
between this non-human force,
the spider, and humans,
which created particular
hybrid bloodlines to represent
the spider that overwhelmingly
operates outside
of this reality to
represent its interests
and its agenda
within this reality.
And these quote,
special bloodlines
are the drivers of
the human level,
if you like, the human
society level of this web.
And this is where
royalty comes from,
and it's where
aristocracy comes from.
Why is it that throughout
all this long period
of human society, there have
been particular bloodlines that
claim the right to rule
because of their genetics?
And so you have
these bloodlines,
and they came out
through the ancient world
as openly royal bloodlines.
Then there came a point where
the populations of the world
were starting to reject
that in-your-face control,
a dictatorship by people
who were just rulers
because of their genetics.
We in Britain, and in the
commonwealth countries,
have still not passed into
a level of maturity that
can see that having a head of
state like we have in Britain
purely decided by their
bloodline and genetics
is probably not a
great idea and has
nothing to do with democracy.
But in most other
areas of the world,
the royal families openly
expressing their control
have disappeared.
But what happened?
They didn't disappear.
What they did was they swapped
their crowns and coronets
for business suits, and they
went into the institutions that
replaced royalty
in most countries,
like politics and
banking and business.
And they've gone on, driving
the direction of the world
ever since through this web.
And although they are
not overtly royal now,
the vast majority, they
consider themselves still
special bloodlines.
And that's why you get these
ultra rich, powerful families
on the east coast of the United
States, in Britain and Europe
and elsewhere, interbreeding
because they're
holding this hybrid
genetic code, which
is the whole
foundation of why they
say their bloodline is special
and has the right to rule.
So these bloodlines sit
atop this global structure,
this global web, in the
human realm, that is.
And this web operates
basically like
a transnational corporation.
You have a headquarters.
These corporations,
they have headquarters
in particular country,
let's say America.
And then in all the
different countries,
they have their branches.
Their branches are dictated
to in terms of the way
they operate from the center,
from the headquarters.
And this web works the same way.
In each country, there are
networks of secret societies
and bloodline
families whose role
is to control the politics
and the financial structure
and the corporate structure
within that country in line
with the centrally
dictated global plan.
And although people
would say, well,
the center of this structure has
got to be in the United States,
well, to an extent,
but not really.
It's in Europe for
historical reasons.
I'm not talking about European
governments, just here
today, tomorrow organizations.
I'm talking about the center of
this web, this secret society
web.
So when I've traveled around
the world, what I've seen
are the same things
being introduced,
the same basic
laws and direction
of the country being
introduced, that
is happening all over the
world at around the same time
because it's being
centrally coordinated.
And in each country,
and globally, you
have something that I call
the permanent government.
Now I've been describing
this in the books
now for the best
part of 30 years.
And suddenly, in
more recent years,
we've had this phrase or
description of the deep state.
Well, the deep
state is an aspect
of this permanent government.
Deep state refers to the
military intelligence networks
and law enforcement networks,
to a very large extent as well.
But that deep state is part of
the permanent government, which
works like this.
Again, pyramid.
You've got the
bloodlines at the top
of this pyramid, this
permanent government pyramid.
And this pyramid, both
nationally and globally,
controls the
banking system, thus
money and the financial
system, controls
the major corporations,
controls the major media,
and so on and so forth.
All these institutions,
the institutions
of the big
pharmaceutical cartel,
the biotech cartel, et cetera.
And you come down,
and then eventually,
at the bottom of
this pyramid, you
meet what we call politics,
the political party
level of government.
And the trick is
to persuade people
that that bottom level of
the permanent government
pyramid, the here
today, gone tomorrow
level of political
parties and presidents
and prime ministers,
et cetera, that that
is where the power
is, and that's
where the decisions
are made that decide
the direction of the world.
So everyone's focused on that.
Oh, I love Trump.
Oh, I hate Trump.
Or I like him.
All that stuff.
And it's a complete diversion
because whether the Democrats
come in through Obama, or
whether the Republicans come in
through Trump--
same with Bush and Clinton, same
in Britain and other countries
with their apparent
political party opposition--
they come and they go.
They're here for
a few years, gone.
And what happens is that while
they're coming and going,
the permanent government
is running the show
and making all the major
decisions because it controls
all the institutions through
which those decisions are made.
And so when you observe the
coming and going of opposition
political parties, and you take
a step back and you look at it,
nothing really changes, does it?
All the rhetoric changes,
but not the direction,
overwhelmingly, of where the
world goes and the country goes
because how it works is this.
Take the American example.
You have, in the
Republican Party,
a group of people,
actually a network,
called the Neocons or
Neoconservatives, that
drive and control that
party, and whoever's
in power, if they
become president,
representing that party.
In the Democrats you
have a similar group
which I call the Democons.
And they control
the Democratic party
and whichever Democratic
president may come in.
You go one step back into
the shadows, one step
back further into the web, and
the Neocons and the Democons
answer to the same master.
So whoever's coming and
going as the political leader
of whichever party, that
is always in control.
That's why nothing
really ever changes.
And that is the
permanent government.
And I've talked in
this series many times
about the foundation
of human control, which
is control of human perception.
And human perception comes
from, and is formed from,
information received.
This permanent government
also own the major media.
It owns Silicon Valley.
And thus, to a
very large extent,
it controls the information
that people see.
Increasingly now, it's deciding
and controlling who is censored
and who isn't censored.
And so you've only got
to look at how easy it
is to dictate the
direction of the world
when you control these
institutions that decide
that direction, while
at the same time,
instead of looking at
where the power really is,
you have manipulated
the population
to look where it's
not, and that is
at the level of political
parties and presidents
and prime ministers,
et cetera, et cetera.
So the thing to grasp
is that major events
in the world that dictate
the direction of the world
are not random.
And when you kind of look at
the world from this perspective,
and you see the connections
through this web,
so many things start to
take on a new perspective.
For example, when a group
of apparently unconnected
corporations suddenly
come out in unison
and censor someone
or ban someone
who is putting out
information challenging
the official narrative and
exposing some of the stuff I'm
talking about, who
coordinates that?
And you see coordination,
for instance,
in this way, because it's
all a mind game in the end.
You'll get a corporation,
maybe involved in media,
and that which controls it wants
to use that organization, that
media, to control what people
see and hear, therefore, to ban
or censor people putting
out information they
don't want the public to see.
But the corporation
really doesn't
want to come out and
just do it because
of their reputation
for being anti-freedom,
anti-freedom of speech.
So what the web does is it
goes through its political wing
and has politicians demanding
that something is banned or is
censored for some often
made up reason, which allows
the corporation to come out
and say, well, you know,
we're under pressure from
the governments to do this.
We don't really want
to do it, not really.
But we've got no choice.
We're going to have to do this.
You see that scam
played all the time
across many areas of society.
And people would look
at that in isolation
and think that what they
see is what they get.
This corporation doesn't really
want to do this censorship,
but they're under pressure
from politicians to do it.
No, no.
Take the politicians,
take the corporations,
and come back into the
web, and the same force
is controlling both sides.
And what the public
are experiencing
is just a mind game to
scam their perception.
So where is this going?
Well, I'm going to cover that
in many of these programs
because it's going
into many areas.
But one of the most blatantly
necessary and blatantly
happening expressions of this
web is centralization of power.
You see, if there's
a few of you,
and you want to
control the many,
you have to centralize power.
The more points of
decision making there are,
the less control
any central few are
going to have over
those decisions
because there's just too many
points of decision making.
You want to pull the
decision making process power
into fewer and fewer hands.
So for decades and
decades and decades now,
we've had something
called globalization.
What is globalization?
The centralization of
power on a global level
across the great spectrum of
human society, business, et
cetera.
What is that globalization
except exactly the phenomena
that I've been describing?
And this has been
going for a long time.
This is not a modern phenomenon.
This has been pushed
along for centuries
and centuries and
centuries and more,
centralizing more
and more power.
And at every point power
is more centralized,
more power for the
few over the many.
So human society, at one
point, was organized in tribes.
And the people in the
tribe made the decisions
about what happened
in the tribe.
Then we reached a
real pivotal point
where many, many, many
tribes were brought together
into what are called nations.
At that point, a few people
at the center of the nation
were now dictating to
all the former tribes.
And in Europe-- and this is
planned to happen globally--
in Europe, we have the European
Union, which is the next stage.
And that is to pull all the
nations of Europe together,
and from a central point,
with unelected bureaucrats,
dictate the fine detail of
what happens in all the nations
that were an amalgamation
of all the former tribes.
And the next stage, which we're
already seeing talked about--
it's been predicted in
my books for 30 years--
is a world government
and a world structure,
a world government dictating
everything globally
from a central point,
a world central bank
dictating all global finance.
The European Central Bank
is a stepping stone to that.
A world currency--
now here's something.
I've been predicting
this and saying
this was part of the agenda,
again, for nearly 30 years--
a world currency with all
other currencies deleted.
What they've done
in Europe is create
the euro which deleted so many
of the previous individual
European currencies.
That was a stepping stone,
again, to this global currency,
and this global
currency is designed
to be digital, no cash.
And what has happened
since I started
writing about this decades ago?
Cash is flying out
of circulation.
So why would they do that?
Simple.
Like everything else that this
web does, it's about control.
You go into a store
now, or anywhere else,
and you hand over a credit
card, electronic money,
which is designed to be
a microchip, eventually.
And the computer system says
it won't accept your card.
Well, at the moment--
but not for much longer,
the way things are going--
you can pull out some cash
and say, I'll pay cash.
What happens when
there's no cash,
and that computer system says no
to your card or your microchip?
You have no other means
of purchase except barter.
And I'll tell you what
the plan is for barter.
It's a plan to ban it on the
excuse that they can't tax it.
And what that will
mean is whoever
controls the computer system of
digital, single currency money
will decide if you
purchase, what you purchase.
They'll dictate your life.
And let no one think that
those who are, if you like,
challenging and
dissidents of the system
will go off the Christmas
card list of the computer
program very early on, indeed.
And this is what's
been unfolding century
after century,
decade after decade,
the walls closing
in on human freedom
in the form of incessant,
unfolding human control.
And it's now a sprint, almost,
it's happening so fast.
And the idea is to keep
the population focused
on other things, focused
on irrelevant things,
focused on I hate
Trump, oh, I love Trump.
There you go.
Oh, yeah, Trump.
Do you like Trump?
Oh, well, I don't like Trump.
And while people are doing
that and getting their knickers
in a twist, the
permanent government
sits there with a
big grin on its face,
pushing the world where it wants
to go without anyone looking,
or almost no one
looking, and saying,
ah, that's where the power is.
And the other level of this
human control is a mind game.
It's manipulating
human perception
to either agree that the
direction that this agenda is
taking the world
is a good thing,
or to censor and
silence those who
can see it and want to tell
everyone else that the world is
not what they think it is.
And to understand
the mind game is
to understand so much
about human control,
and therefore, so
much about how we
take that control back
from the few in the shadows
and start to dictate our lives
ourselves instead of being
the pawns in a game that
most people don't even know
is being played.
See you next time.